AI Toolkit docs migration (#7827)
microsoft/vscode-docs: docs/intelligentapps/bulkrun.md

---
Order: 4
Area: intelligentapps
TOCTitle: Bulk Run
ContentId:
PageTitle: Bulk Run Prompts
DateApproved:
MetaDescription: Run a set of prompts in an imported dataset, individually or in a full batch towards the selected genAI models and parameters.
MetaSocialImage:
---

> # Bulk Run Overview

Reviewer: Instead of using <feature name> overview, describe what it does: "Run multiple prompts in bulk"

> Bulk run feature in AI Toolkit allows you to run many prompts in batch mode. Compared to playground you can only run each prompt manually in order.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The bulk run feature in AI Toolkit allows you to run multiple prompts in batch. When you use the playground, you can only run one prompt manually at a time, in the order they're listed.
```

Reviewer: Add more information about how this works because in the next section you're mentioning a dataset. Explain briefly how the batch thing works.

Author: updated.

## Start a bulk run

> Navigate to `Bulk Run` in the `TOOLS` section in the tree view of AI Toolkit. You can select either a sample dataset to get familiar about the feature, or import a local JSONL file that has at least a field `query` to use as prompts.

Reviewer: Use numbered steps to make it easier for users to know what to do. Also include screenshots where needed.

> ## Run any prompt

Reviewer: This heading is not very clear

Author: updated to "Run a single prompt"

MetaSocialImage:
---

# Run multiple prompts in bulk

The bulk run feature in AI Toolkit allows you to run multiple prompts in batch. When you use the playground, you can only run one prompt manually at a time, in the order they're listed. Bulk run takes a dataset as input, where each row in the dataset has a prompt as the minimal requirement. Typically teh dataset has multiple rows. Once imported, you can select any prompt to run or run all prompts on the selected model. The responses will be displayed in the same dataset view. Executed dataset can be exported.

To start a bulk run:

1. Open Bulk Run view

    In the AI Toolkit view, select **TOOLS** > **Bulk Run** to open the Bulk Run view.

> 1. Select dataset

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Select either a sample dataset or import a local JSONL file that has a `query` field to use as prompts.
```

>     You can select either a sample dataset to get familiar about the feature, or import a local JSONL file that has at least a field `query` to use as prompts.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

    ![Select dataset](./images/bulkrun/dataset.png)

> 1. Run a single prompt

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Once the dataset is loaded, select **Run** or **Rerun** on any prompt to run a single prompt.
```

>     Once dataset is loaded in the bulk run view, you can **Run** or **Rerun** any prompt.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

    Like in the playground, you can select AI model, add context for your prompt, and change inference parameters.

>     ![Bulk run prompts](./images/bulkrun/bulkrun_one.png)

Reviewer: Highlight the button in the screenshot with a red rectangle to make it obvious for users.

> 1. Bulk run prompts

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Select **Run all** on the top of the Bulk Run view to automatically run through queries. The responses are shown in the **response** column.
```

Reviewer: Also add a screenshot of the top of the screen and highlight the Run all button for clarity.

>     Select **Run all** on the top of bulk run view to automatically run through all queries and display responses in the response column. There is an option to only run the remaining queries that have not been executed.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    There is an option to only run the remaining queries that have not yet been run.
```

> 1. Export results

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Select the **Export** button to export the results to a JSONL format.
```

>     You can export the bulk run result to a JSONL format for future reference.

Reviewer: ```suggestion

```

>     You can also import another dataset in JSONL format for the bulk run.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Select **Import** to import another dataset in JSONL format for the bulk run.
```
